Week 1: Techniques for effective study:

A topic of great recent interest for me pertains to the effectiveness of various learning strategies. Much of the study content presented in class this week is pretty much review, mostly because I read a great book on the subject recently called A Mind for Numbers, by Barbara Oakely. In this book, the author divulges a great body of applied research which I found to be quite beneficial.
The common thread among the study techniques that seem to most effective is cognitive effort. Essentially, any method we can employ that requires great cognitive effort will strongly benefit our ability to retrieve information. Active recall, here, is key. My study strategy lately has been a mixture of active recall and note taking, where I learn a concept from the book then summarize/write it out from memory. I may begin to supplement this strategy with self tests at the ends of my study sessions. Spaced repetition is a technique that can be used to transfer information from short term memory to long term memory; I use this technique in my foreign language and chemistry classes, but after the videos this week, I will probably deploy it in all of my classes in the future. 
	Novelty seems also to play a key role in our ability to retrieve information, using visual metaphors the induce long term meaning enhances not only recall, but the establishment of deep understanding. In the future, I will test myself more frequently, develop more visual metaphors, and more frequently integrate apps such as anki into my study sessions.

Week 2: How did your learning go this week?  What was the most challenging, and why?  Our first big exam is coming quickly.  What is your strategy for preparing for it? 

So, this week has been a fascinating process. I decided to radically change my study technique, and I’m feeling iffy on it but I think when I refine it, it’s going to be incredibly effective. Rather than taking notes or summarizing material, I’ve jumped into only making questions for myself, which I routinely go over and spaced intervals. Essentially, active recall taken to the extreme. I am thinking about introducing some not taking here and there, but it’s going to be a long process, refining this strategy. As for the content,I feel pretty good about most of it, and this active recall framework seems to be working because I feel as if I am very familiar with the material. 
	My strategy in preparation for the quiz is to keep up on all of my assignments, read the book, write questions for myself, and self test regularly. A big challenge has for me also arises from doubts as to whether I have what it takes to pull this off. 

Week 3: The time is almost near, our first Biology exam!  What strategies have you used to prepare for this?  Which of your confusions have you been able to clarify?  How are you going to clarify the ones that remain?

	My biggest challenge to overcome with regards to this impending exam relates to some of the genetics problems. I’m not sure what I am missing, but I am going to do the work sheet today to assess this matter. I will apply any questions that arise to my active recall testing sheet, then enter a state of non-sleep deep rest. I will iterate a cycle of testing, consultation with course materials, and deep rest. This is my strategy.
	I really have been poor with my sleep and inconsistent with my studies, this is something that I need to work on on a fundamental level. Of course, environmental factors play a role here, but I can modulate these factors to a great degree. The modulation of these external factors I anticipate will support a self sustaining cycle of improvement.

Week 4: This week was back to normal, except for the exam on Monday.  How about that exam?  What about your preparation worked well?  What didn't work so well, or what will you change?  Any revelations with the Hard-Weinberg stuff?   As always, feel free to reflect back on anything you want. 

I did really badly on the test. Since then, I have not been motivated in my studies, so I am probably going to perform poorly on the rest of the course, but we’ll see if I can pull it together. I was fairly satisfied with my studying, as when it came to the recollection of concepts from the book, I could essentially explain them rather well on demand. However, during the last weekend of studying, my girlfriend came over and I basically ended up pushing my worksheets to the last minute. Had I looked at the practice test and the hard genetics problems early on, I would have performed rather better. Anyhow, it is what it is. I’m probably going to have to end up dropping due to that blunder.

Week 5: So this week we got our exams back.	Do you think you prepared well for it?  For those questions you got wrong, how did your answers compare with the correct answers?  Do the correct answers make sense?
How about Speciation and Phylogenies; any connections with this material?

I got a horrible grade on this exam, so evidently my preparations were woefully inadequate. I have had to reconsider whether I am even capable of achieving my dreams, and the retort this is that I am. I just need to figure out to learn in the manner that is expected of me in this course. To others, this may come instantaneously or from previous experience. For me, this is really a new beast.
	This material this week has been a breeze for me. This is how I felt prior to the previous exam as well, so I really have no idea what is going to happen when push comes to shove. I’m going to attempt to muster the psychological adaptations necessary to overcome these hitherto unmet challenges.

Week 6: This week, lots of plants and animals, with some fungi and protists thrown in.   How did learning go this week?  Did anything you learned surprise you?  Are you able to make any connections with what we've learned with your own life?

	Hm this week has been rather tumultuous for me, but good nonetheless. I have ascertained a great deal about the nature of my brain. Much of this insight I feel is not quite germane to the requirements of these logs, but I will say that I have been able to cut out many things from my learning regimen that seem to offer a low yield. The content this week has been rather interesting, though I am not quite sure yet how discern what I am expected to know from what I am not. I found the lichen symbiosis to be extremely interesting.

Week 7: A fun week, I think.  Vertebrates and Human evolution.  Any strike you as particularly interesting or difficult?  Why?  As you prepare for the exam on Monday, what topics do you think will be particularly challenging?  Why?  What are you doing about that?

The topics that I find most daunting are those related to genetics and allele distribution. Phylogenies and things of that nature are a bit of a cake walk. I am going to have to put a great deal of thought into life cycles and the study of the tree of life, as well as experimental design.  Other than the content of this, my life this quarter has been very challenging and difficult. I am not sure that I will be finishing this class, but we’ll see. I just don’t know if I have the emotional energy necessary to pull off my current course load. One thing is for sure, I am not going to sign up for another 8:00 class if I can help it.
Perhaps our most direct form of contact with the world is through the perceptual gateways of taste and touch, and in, particular, as they pertain to food. Our primary means of discovery through our earliest stages of development are mediated via the mouth; infact, the tongue is often considered, in the realm of neurobiology, to be a “royal road to the brain” so to speak. Do to the fundamental role played by food in the propagation of the human species, it is only natural to operate on the presupposition that the interplay of food and our drive to obtain it determines the parameters over which many emergent systems operate. This premise is what caused the following golden line to induce such an effect on me: “It’s really interesting to see how subsistence strategies condition all of these other social institutions.” 
One important realm through which the impact of substance strategies can be felt is via the influence exerted by the transportation of and the operation of crops on the proliferation of patrilineal and patriarchal power structures. Generally speaking, subsistence strategies predicated on the intensification of food production delegate much of the processes which pertain to the control of food and property unequally among the genders, with males more often than not winning most of these rights. Subtle inequalities such as this led to the systemic privilege of men over women in most human power structures since the dawn of civilization. Subsistence strategies predicated upon the harvesting of naturally occurring resources, on the other hand, led to more equitable distributions of power across the sexes. In fact, in paleolithic hunter-gatherer societies, women collected and controlled most of the food, granting them power over men in many cases.
The large scale impact of subsistence strategies on interpretive frameworks and ideologies can be seen quite readily. In most ancient religions, the most powerful deities were those who’s power placed direct constraints on the production and distribution of food. As subsistence strategies become more intensive, religious structures tend to become more coherent and monotheistic. These religious frameworks, quite obviously exert a tremendous ammount of force on the developement of society. 
Impact of subsistence strategies of governmental structures.is quite fundamental in nature.Governemental complexity tends to scale directly in in relation to the intensification of food production. The most primitive of subsistence strategies usually have the most equanimous power structures, and any systems which could even vaguely be construed of governmentally are at most utterly decentralized. In these systems, there is just not the excess of production which is necessary to the development of serious concentrations of power. In the case of agriculture, on the other hand, we see the emergence of complex power systems. The arise from the ability of few individuals to feed many. This, in turn, inspires the need for artisans, tool makers, managers, and currency. From this increased complexity emerges government, the system to which all preceding systems are subject. It is so tremendously interesting to observe the exponential cascade on influence held by such nodes as constitute the underlying topology ot the nodes from which all other nodes take root.
Thinking
	What exactly is thinking? Thinking seems to be the semi-autonomous system via which our brains attempt to compile loose bits of sensory data that accrue throughout life into tidy semantic schemas. We have both subconscious and conscious thought processes, and there is no clear boundary between the two. Often we engage in effortful thinking when specific problems arise which require solving, but this form of thought can be quite inefficient. Often it feels as though the brain expends the energy necessary to propel chains of meaningful thought, without engaging the drive shaft necessary for the accumulation of mental inertia; in this way, our wheels spin in place. When cognitive loads are placed upon the mind involuntarily, our energy expenditure goes absolutely hair wire and efficiency drops to zero. In these moments it is necessary to activate standard operating procedures to cycle from task to task in an intelligent and disciplined manner. With focus, diffuse energy from the sun can become a deadly beam of high-energy radiation. A shotgun shell and a 7.62 mm round of equal content manifest vastly disparate results. When a car is in neutral, stepping on the gas pedal will get one nowhere, but once the motor engages with the drive shaft an incredible amount of work can be done. When we find ourselves thinking heavily but producing lackluster results, we must keep this concept in mind. Ransacking the room is much less effective than a diligent search. Discipline equals freedom, and this applies to our thoughts. When we experience great anxiety, I think a similar concept must be employed. Even if your disciplined focus is applied to simple proprioceptive awareness, you will become a more effective thinking machine. 
	Thinking properly requires a tremendous amount of energy and so we tend to veer away from it. Writing, in my opinion, seems to be an exquisite form of training in regards to thinking. It would seem that those who produce verbal content frequently become extremely efficient producers. We know that when we fail to engage bodily systems, they begin to atrophy. By expending a modest amount of energy concerning a particular bodily system, it maintains a constant level of proficiency. Therefore, to make a system stronger, we must cause it to expend a far greater amount of energy than is considered normal. Now, apply this line of reasoning to verbal fluency. We know that if we, after having learned a language fail to use it, become less effective speakers of that language. This is important because we are constantly engaging our primary language so we never get a chance to witness its atrophication, maintaining our current proficiency indefinitely. If we cause ourselves to expend much more energy than normal with verbal production, it seems that our capacity for verbal output should expand substantially. It may even be that we experience “Newbie Gains”, as is seen in those beginner weightlifters who experience incredible progress within the first year of their witness journey. How can we then hope to expend far more energy than is normal concerning verbal output? It seems quite clear that several methods can be employed, all with distinct effects on the brain. All of these practices should be applied in parallel. Reading, as a form of verbal input; reading should serve as an effective way to develop the patterns necessary for concise speech as well as to provide substantial lexical expansion. Writing, as a method for output, should help to develop the brain areas necessary for the production of clean, structured thoughts and to enhance our efficiency with the recollection of ideas and syntax. Engaging with strangers as a means to deploy the structural changes facilitated by reading and writing in a practical context allows for the refinement, expansion, and consolidation of progress achieved by the previously mentioned modalities. There is much more to discuss, but that is where I am going to leave this article. Peace out, Chef.


Linguistic anthropology is actually a subject that I have been interested in for quite a long time now, so I was eager to expand my knowledge base this week. The following golden line, “People who speak different languages will pay attention to different things depending on what their language usually requires them to do… Language guides our reasoning about events” (Boroditsky, 2018) struck me immediately with a slew of diverse implications. 
	As indicated by the above source, language seems to mediate the probability of an individual interpreting specific situations in equally specific ways. Given that some languages pervade extremely vast portions of the population, we can expect certain patterns of behavior to differ interculturally on the basis of language and its relationship to basic habitual cognition. These linguistically influenced perceptual trends can likely alter the topology of fundamental decision making processes on the scale of entire cultures. The aggregate influence of these trends can likely give rise to large scale changes in the structure of society, and it is from these changes that the systems which make up government (and all the processes contained therein) are, possibly, derived. 
The property of language which I discussed in the preceding paragraph could easily be exploited to the benefit of those in power. For instance, a corrupt government could theoretically leverage its various forms of influence to alter normative speech patterns which would facilitate shifts in perception to the end of encouraging public complacency in the face of changes that would disparately negatively impact its citizens. This idea was heavily explored in such books as  George Orwell’s 1984 and Ray Bradbury’s Fahrenheit 451, which portrayed dystopian worlds wherein the state removed from the vernacular of it’s subjects the means to articulate their thoughts in the ways necessary to recognize the various flaws of the realities with which they were faced. Armed with the analytical tools of linguistic anthropology, we can see just how strong the potential for this form of policy to affect society in very tangible ways.
There is a possibility that we could augment or expand the languages that we speak in ways such as will facilitate more effective interpretations of reality. Just as the knowledge of the dynamics of language and cognition could be put to nefarious use, we could use language augmentation as a means to broaden and hone our skills of perception. Some aspects of the structure of a given language may be lent to the promotion actions which would precipitate massive negative consequences, and, given a large enough scale, could be responsible for the cultivation of culturally pervasive toxic attitudes towards certain phenomena. This line of reasoning, I understand, is potentially dangerous, but if pursued properly we could use it to open up new doors of perception. 
Because language guides, to some extent, our thought processes, it in some way guides its own evolution over time. If the thoughts of a speaker of a given language are leveraged in one direction over another, then this can create effects on the speaker's speech patterns. When the languages speakers are predisposed to certain patterns of speech, this will by extension affect course the development of the language over time. This is an example of the cyclical dynamic present between a people and their culture; the culture changes the people, and the people change the culture. These kinds of insights really excite me, even though my thoughts probably don’t make very much sense. 


